**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [September 27 2022 Transcript](#september-27-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0030? | Add chain id to differentiate between testnets](#pr323)
    + [CIP-0053? | Standard for light wallet backend connection](#pr254)
    + [CIP-0067? | Asset Name Label Registry](#pr298)  
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](#pr299)
    + [CIP-0038? | Arbitrary Script as Native Script spending conditions](#pr309)
  * [Review](#review) 
    + [CIP-0069? | Script Signature Unification](#pr321)
    + [Add CIP Domain Validation](#pr319)  
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 27/09/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## September 27 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: ~Morgan Thomas~, Michael Liesenfelt, Las Safin

### Triage

#### PR323
[PR323 CIP-0030? | Add chain id to differentiate between testnets](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/323)

**Matthias** -:So, let's get started with CIP-30. Oh, not CIP-30, but in addition to CIP-30, the chain ID to the API, which has been discussed mostly on the written format for that. So, the addition is to add a new method to the sets of interfaces of the existing CIP-30, to provide the chain ID of differentiation between Mainnet and Testnet, basically, and more specifically, between the different Testnets.
Up until recently, we had only one Testnet or one main Testnet and one Mainnet. It's becoming confusing. Now we have multiple stages of testing, with different genesis configuration, with different purposes also. So, it becomes necessary for testing to have a good way to differentiate all those different Testnets.

**Matthias** -:I don't think the discussions has fully settled yet on the format. There is basically two schools of thought at the moment. One being, just uses the current network ID, which only allows distinguishing between Testnets in general, like all Testnets, and different varieties of Mainnet, even though we currently only have one Mainnet.

**Matthias** -: Or there is a counterproposal by Sebastien, which is to use the chain ID for which we already have an existing CIP that describes the format and that also includes the genesis hash of that particular network, which makes it suitable for distinguishing multiple different Testnets.

**Matthias** -: I think we have Rafael today. So, maybe you can... Or we can bring him on stage to just present a bit and discuss the progress on that particular CIP.

**Matthias** -: Yes, let's unmute. I see him in the chat. You should be able to speak now, Rafael. If you do speak, I don't hear you.

**Matthias** -: Yes.

**Matthias** -: No, we can't hear you well.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Sometimes these calls require you to restart, maybe. So, okay. I mean no big deal anyway, since we are also just triaging that one. So, we'll be doing a full review next time, really, so it was more to maybe get a few words on that.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So yeah, we'll re-discuss the CIP-30 edition next time, provided the discussion has settled. We can even fast-track it to last check, since this is just in addition to CIP-30. Unless Sebastien, you have something to add to that?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, I think the only thing to say was whether not to include just the network magic or the network magic and the network ID. Those were the only thing that was really left.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, okay. Well from what I see from the discussion, pretty much everyone is in favour of having the full chain ID, except maybe Duncan wants just to have the network ID, but there is no strong argument either. It's more that yes, if you want to distinguish between network, just choose the network magic. But yeah, beyond that I don't think there is anything wrong with the chain ID that we need to resolve.

**Sebastien** -:The other thing that I think was now resolved is inside this PR, instead of including CIP-34 I believe, which is the including of the network ID and network magic. Instead of having it as is, they instead re-encode it, re-encode it as a seaboard string, which is not what is described in the CIP-34, CIP. And so that's the other thing we want, we need to figure out, if we want to just store the string representation or if we really want to do the seaboard version and I'm not convinced is it a good argument for the seaboard option.

#### PR254
[PR254 CIP-0053? | Standard for light wallet backend connection](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/254)

**Matthias** -: Okay. Well let's discuss that next time then, but I don't... Yeah. Anyway, moving on just to not spend too much time on triage items. The next one we want to just triage was the CIP-53, tentatively, the Standout for Light Wallet backend connection, which is a bit old now. It was submitted back in May and we haven't truly discussed it extensively since then. So I think there was the beginning of discussion last time, but it hasn't really...

**Matthias** -: Yes, I told them anything. The proposals by itself is about making backend, Wallet backend services a bit more standardized so that they can be used across variety of services of frontend services, which is a bit odd in the first place as the backend are typically private or specific to the different Wallet providers that provides them. I don't see why there should be any reasons to standardized the backend across all the different Wallets, especially given that we already have CIP-30 that gives this Wallet interface layer already. So I'm a bit hesitant on the motivations behind that, plus don't think it has attracted a lot of attention so far. So that's pro-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, well I would assume that the rationale is to do something like Ethereum has with MetaMask. Where for MetaMask they use a standardized set of endpoints and what it allows you to do is to run MetaMask with the default node, or if you want you can rent your own node to run MetaMask and if you want to spin up new networks for example, you want to create a new EVM based chain, all you have to do to ensure MetaMask support is ensure that your new EVM based chain has the same end points. [inaudible 00:13:16] What I assume is-

**Matthias** -: Yeah, yeah. You had [inaudible 00:13:18] provider, right?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, because the person who submitted this CIP is also the same person who created a new network that uses the Cardano Codebase. They spun up a new chain based off the Cardano base. So I'm assuming the reason they wanted this is the same reason, which is that they want to have a backend that supports their new chain where you can just swap it out with whatever Wallet you use and now suddenly Eternal or Flinder, whatever, supports this new network without having to change the Wallet code. So this is what I assume their rationale is.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, I see. I see they also mention Plutus as a good alternative to the CIP which is a public API layer also used by Eternal and a few others. So that's probably what they were looking for in the first place. So, since there has been no activity really on the CIP, I would suggest maybe to move it to last check for next meeting. Last check being closing the CIP as rejected maybe, unless there is, I don't know, any interest being sparked over the next two weeks.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, I think if we were to do this, only it's very unlikely we would standardize on Wallet backends. I mean we could try and we get a CIP version of the Carp backend or Coyos backend, but most likely what makes a lot more sense is to have some kind of CIP for the node itself like Cardano [inaudible 00:15:10] in some way because that's kind of like one level below what Coyos and Cardano's other tools use.

**Matthias** -: I mean most of the functionality we would need for such an API layer anywhere would require some form of indexing. Because what you get out of the node and only the node is not sufficient to build any applications really. So that's why people have [inaudible 00:15:41] -

**Sebastien** -: That's true of Ethereum as well.

**Matthias** -: Yes, but Ethereum have baked in the nodes already more functionality than we have in Tylenol node, like the ability to look up a specific transaction for instance. This is just not something you can do with a bare node. You need to [inaudible 00:15:58] -

**Sebastien** -: The way they do this in MetaMask is that when you create a node, like a new network, you have to put in two things. You have to put in the Explorer API or the Explorer URL and your node URL.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Okay.

**Sebastien** -: And the node provides limited information and then it queries the explorer for the rest information. And although Ethereum does have a standard for the node API that all nodes use, on the explorer side, everybody like Ether scan is the most popular one. So all the other explorers just kind of copy the same endpoints Ether scan provides, I don't think there's any kind of CIP or standard for Ether scan. I think it's just a convention that people have done precisely for MetaMask support.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Then moving to last check for next week and we'll probably reject the CIP for lack of any motives or needs really.

**Robert** -: When we have this transcribed I can summarize that to the GitHub thread, just to make sure that the author's aware.

#### PR298
[PR298 CIP-0067? | Asset Name Label Registry](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/298)

**Matthias** -: Thanks Robert. Moving to the next one on triage, which is CIP-67, the Asset Label Registry, which is a bit in a shoddier state at this moment, there is really two different thread, I mean discussion thread going on there is the actual proposal currently written on the backend files and there is a kind of counter-proposal or rework of that proposal somewhere in the comment, which I can try to find the link to. Yes here. Yes. So I put the link in the chat. So the idea of that particular proposal is to go hand in hand with the new datum metadata approach to define a registry for the different metadata that can go into that. And the main concern about the registry is the same as there has been for CIP-25 for a while, how do you prevent people from using the standout without knowing?

**Matthias** -: This is something that may sound a bit weird but since all those standouts are based on the fact that you defined a name according to some convention, if you use the convention knowingly you would be abiding by the standout without knowing and then the data gets interpreted according to that standout even though you're not following it, which might be problematic for your projects. So the discussion at the moment is really focused on how do you prevent that from happening or how you make it less likely. And one of the approaches detailing the comment is to use a binary encoding with a form of a check that reduces the chances of someone adopting the standout by mistake. I think the discussion hasn't fully settled yet, although it's really leaning towards this binary approach instead of just a label, high-level human high-level label, as a prefix for the registry. So some form of check, Sebastian, you suggested the reuse of X 32 perhaps for that which might be overkill, I think, given that we don't have a lot of space in this label and we don't need all the hard detection that comes with X 32 I think, which is really meant for human facing kind of data, which is not really the case here or shouldn't be the case here.

**Matthias** -: Any questions on that one? We don't have to fully review that yet. Also, since we're only on triage, the idea was just to bring it to the light and have it maybe for the discussions in the future meeting. Although, most of I think of the discussion has been said in detail already.

**Robert** -: Yes, I recall everything that you said there also being posted on GitHub.

**Matthias** -: Okay, good. Then yes, we'll wait for the authors to, well make a choice, basically. Hopefully, before we review it next time, or maybe let's actually wait for that choice to be made before we put it on review. Although I think it will be pretty straightforward, standing on the discussion that has already happened. 

### Last Check

#### PR299
[PR299 CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/299)

 **Matthias** -: We can move on to, well the last check item there is CIP-68 which is the one accompanying this label registry which has also gone through a lot of discussions. I'm not sure how you follow the latest comments on that one. Maybe you have Robert, as you have posted quite recently?

**Matthias** -: And just before maybe to give a little heads up, so the CIP-68 comes as an alternative to CIP-25 when it comes to defining metadata on chain. By leveraging the datum presenting scripts, the benefit it gives is some form of programmability over the metadata because they can now be accessed from a script context within the put script. Therefore, this has a few advantages, especially if a Minting Policy is aware of its metadata, it can do extra checks, it can possibly upgrade them through later Mint et cetera, et cetera. It's not only limited to NFT, but the proposal is also really meant to be a bit harder and that's why it defined this notion of labels. Some of the labels would be related to NFT, some other labels would be related to other things, [inaudible 00:22:49] or whatever you can think of. I think they have, they have a few predefined label in the proposal already. And yeah, that's it for the introduction I guess or reintroduction. Anything from your side Robert?

**Robert** -: I was just recording what we said in a couple meetings ago which is that the consideration of these is more or less linked, 67 and 68. I hadn't really said anything beyond that.

**Matthias** -: Okay, so I'm going through the latest comment from Smoke actually, three weeks ago. We're suggesting a few minor changes I think on the property side which have been acknowledged by the author. We're already in last check I don't, there hasn't been any update since those comments. So I think what we can do now is to notify the author that I think this proposal is now good to be Merged as proposed, while the various implementations are being worked on. We'll need to change the status so as proposed the type as, well, process model informational I believe, since this is defining a standout to follow and wait for implementation and adoption from the values exporter. And Wallets use. Is there actually a clear path to activity? No. So we'll also need to add that actually before Merging the proposal. So that's a bit too many things to check so we'll have to move it to, I mean, to keep it to last check actually for next time. Make sure it includes a clear path to active with criteria that, well, makes it or proves it's actually being used and adapted. So we'll discuss that with the author and put something on GitHub to let them know.

**Matthias** -: And yes, the title also we need to change or it needs to be changed to CIP-68. Currently it has no number assigned. But beyond that the content of the proposal itself, we've been over it already a few times, it's been through many comments already and if there are still more comments to come during the implementation then it will happen. Anything I'm missing from the chats? Cause I haven't, it's open here or is it again here? No. Okay.

**Robert** -: I can note that up for the GitHub thread. I'm just not very good at writing during the meetings.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, I me either, I always try to but then there is an awkward silence in the meeting and it's a bit weird so I'm just trying to take rapid notes. 

#### PR309
[PR309 CIP-0038? | Arbitrary Script as Native Script spending conditions](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/309)

**Matthias** -: Moving to the next one, CIP-38, what is that one? Arbitrary Script as Native Script spending conditions. Yes, so the spirit of that CIP was to extend the Native script language, which currently is very limited to combining a few experiments on keys and slots. And this proposal suggests adding a few new primitives to also make it possible to combine it with scripts, which would facilitate a few new use cases or simplify a bit some of some use cases that can currently be done through Plutus scripts but could not be done with only Native scripts which are far easier to use. I think there is a bit of pushback from the core team, although I haven't been through all the threads yet, I think Sebastian you have?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, I mean a lot of the pushback is just because people would rather try and tackle this through changes to the ledger spec or changes to Plutus. My argument has always been yes, I agree that changes to the ledger spec, changes Plutus to also add this functional from their perspective is more than welcome. I'm happy to have that discussion but ultimately all those are complementary to the CIP that I proposed and are significantly more complicated than the CIP I proposed. Probably requirements of deliberation implementation. So I don't see any reason why we would not accept this CIP and then work on complementary, more complicated, possibly more holistic solutions in parallel or afterwards.

**Matthias** -: So this falls again in the category of two CIPs that touches the Co-part and for which we likely need buy-in from the core team before they get implemented. We can always propose a change but there is no guarantee that this will be taken by the core team. I think Jared was pretty positive on the idea but he was worried a bit about the security aspect of it, right?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, I mean I don't think there's any particular concern other than the fact that if you write the wrong script you can put gun yourself but this is already mostly true of any scripting language.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, in particular in Cardano actually.

**Sebastien** -: So I'm talking to a few teams in IOG that are also interested in the CIP for their own projects. So there is some internal discussion going on about how to proceed with this.

**Matthias** -: Maybe you can invite them to chip in on the CIP directly instead of having internal chats?

**Sebastien** -: I've done this multiple times to no great success.

**Matthias** -: I can maybe try as well. If you want to share who, if people are trying to reach out to them directly, or through IOG leadership might help. Generally speaking, there is always a lot of chat that is happening on private forums on IOG side, which is a bit unfortunate because it will greatly help to have this conversation in public, especially when they are about public stuff and stuff that are already happening in public like the CIP. So I will actually maybe contact Avenue who is the new director of architecture on the Cardano side who might be able to help a bit on getting people to collaborate on public forums and see where we can take that one if there is indeed a demand also from internal teams that might actually help to move that CIP forward. Maybe also from your side, one thing that could help would be to kind of proof that there are indeed no additional problems being introduced by the addition of the CIP. Or that the problems that are being introduced, the potential problems being introduced, are already possible today with the current design and that therefore this CIP does not make the situation worse, with that regards but it makes the, or they improve the overall developer experience by making a few things a lot easier to do.

**Matthias** -: I think if this is stated more clearly in the CIP that can help its adoption. Okay, so we'll contact IOG leadership on that and wait for their update maybe before bringing that CIP back on stage. Anything else from anyone? I see Ryan is typing in the chat. Do you have any insider knowledge for us, Ryan? I can try to get more visibility. Yes, that would be great. If we can get people to share their concerns or intentions on the CIP that would be lovely. Thanks.

### Review 

#### PR321
[PR321 CIP-0069? | Script Signature Unification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/321)

**Matthias** -: Moving on, CIP-69 Script Signature Unification, which is kind of an interesting name. I think we shouldn't use the word 'signature' too often in a blockchain space, because here I guess it refers to type signature and not to publicly signatures or political signatures. For the spirit of the CIP is to change a bit or to make the arguments or scripts execution more uniform across all the different types of script execution. As some may know, there is actually four types of script executions possible, although most people I think have been using only two so far; the Minting scripts or the Spending scripts. They are also possible when creating certificates like delegation certificates or when withdrawing the rewards or a particular script address and three of them have the same type, actually, they are a Redeemer to, a Redeemer script context to something which is not false, basically, and only the Spending script had this extra datum also embedded in there. The proposal here is to change that to make them all uniform and I've, as I've actually commented, I may seem a bit irrational for doing that. Where the author mentions is that there is a mutual dependency problem where scripts, Spending scripts and Minting script will be referring to one another through the datum somehow. But it's still a bit unclear to me. I do agree on one, I mean on the side I do understand the idea of making that uniform across all scripts, just because more uniformity, more consistency just makes it typically easier to do things in the programming world. But I fail a bit to understand why this mutual, why particular proposal solves the mutual dependency problem being stated.

**Las Safin** -: So the idea here is you have a validator, you have a Minting Policy. You have a validator and you have a Minting Policy and you want to both, you want to Merge them, you want to have a single script that is both a validator and both Minting Policy so it's the same hash, you can say it's going to be both occurrence civil but also the scripted rest and the question how to achieve this.

**Matthias** -: I see, okay, you want to use the same code.

**Las Safin** -: Yes. Today if you try to do this you have the issue that on amending a policy, the first premise is the Redeemer on validated the first premises only if it's all Non Type right. There No Types improves in onsite score of course because it's On Types it's in the name. So what you can do right now is have the user help you. If the user of the validator tells you they're using it as a validator by putting the correct information into datum, then you can. So you have to trust the users. So it's not, doesn't really have the same benefits we do today because you have to trust who's giving the information. Likewise, when used as Minting Policy, the user has to write the Redeemer that they're using it as a Minting Policy not as a validator and then you can check the script context and the script purpose. This is essentially the issue and this is why we want this unification. With this unification it's much easier because now you always have only two arguments, you don't have either two or three and so you can always just check the script purpose, see what type of script you are and then figure out what you have to do. You don't have to depend on the user sending you some information and telling you what context you're actually in. That's basically there. That's basically the reason for this.

**Matthias** -: I can see maybe how it is a bit the developer experience, although in practice it'll still be virtually two different scripts. It's just that you start with a pattern matching on a script purpose and then you execute this bunch of logic instead of this bunch of logic which is pretty much the same as having two different scripts in the end. But I get that it makes it a bit easier, maybe, to achieve as you don't need to reference the different script hashes in one or another of the scripts. Okay.

**Las Safin** -: I mean one very good example is the forwarding Minting Policy kind of stuff. Right now what you need is you need a Minting Policy. So the Minting Policy is the values where the validator doesn't know the Minting Policy. So how does the Minting Policy tell the validate its own hash? The Minting Policy puts its own hash into the datum of the validator. But this is not as efficient. With this trick because they can be the same script, the Minting Policy and validator will have the same hash and because of that the validator will know the hash of the current symbol but the current symbols, Minting Policy will also be able to refer to the validator. So you lose the issue with a slightly dependency here and the Minting Policy can say "send my own hash" as validator and the validator can say "don't send my own token, which is my own hash, to an output that isn't also locked by my own hash." So once it's Minting Policy, once it's validated, so this is a very useful trick then and also for some other stimulus scenarios where it gets very cumbersome to the pass around datum trick.

**Matthias** -: So I would definitely suggest to the author to frame the motivation more in those terms being that the main motivation is actually to be able to use a script as both a Minting Policy and a Spending policy, of a Minting script and a Spending script because it makes things easier down the line. Because both pieces of logic can refers to their own hash and you can keep one hash instead of having to communicate that hash across. But the main motivation really being you have one script which I think's not really clearly stated at the moment. There are a bunch of use cases being outlined but that does not make the problem quite clear, at least not to me. Plus there is, the CIP is written in the kind of weird way at the moment, where it's kind of written as a letter to the reviewers instead of being more like this is the proposal and this is what the proposal does. It's written in the very conditional form.

**Matthias** -: It's also been reviewed by the Plutus score team as far as I saw. Yes, Michael commented on that and was, well relatively happy, I would say, knowing Michael, it's the most plausible variant of this proposal that I've seen. And down the line people were also quite enthusiastic, I think, about the idea. They were suggesting maybe to have instead, I think the only pushback was to instead of augmenting the script purpose, to now have the datum to come up with a new form of argument to give to all the different scripts and the arguments being different based on whether or not you are executing a Spending script or a Minting script. I'm not sure if the author commented on that yet. Nope. So we'll have to follow up on that I think. And the author is not among us today, right?

**Robert** -: I don't see him.

**Matthias** -: Among us. No. Okay, so definitely need some reformulation on the motivation and pending point will be to discuss this script purpose design. Script purpose or addition in this script purpose versus the introduction of the new script out, although I haven't fully read Michael's proposal on that and whether or not it'll also well facilitate this use of same script into different purpose. If it does, then I think that's maybe a good way to move it forward. It feels to me that the script out is kind of circling back to the original problem, but I may be wrong. Yes and as Attach says in the chat, could still make things clearer to have only one script in that case. In the edit, as I was saying at the beginning in the programming world, usually having consistent API and one way to do things is usually better than multiple ones or at least it's a good way to avoid mistakes.

#### PR319
[PR319 Add CIP Domain Validation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/319)

**Matthias** -: Next one, we still have 15 minutes and quite a few things to go through, CIP Domain Validation.

**Robert** -: Can we unmute, have to HeptaSean and have him speak for a little bit? Who is here with us today.

**Matthias** -: Because is the author? Yes, that's definitely, if we have the author to make the introduction for us, that's even better.

**Benjamin** -: Hello?

**Matthias** -: Hey we can hear you.

**Robert** -: Hello Benjamin.

**Benjamin** -: Okay, I'm proposing a way to link Cardano addresses to internet domains as an alternative to ADA handles, for example, because I thought it would be more decentralized to use the already established and trusted framework of DNS domains.

**Benjamin** -: It is done by putting a special kind of token onto the address and using established protocols of the internet world. So text records in DNS and Jason files at a well known location on the other side and validates the connection between the address and the domain in both directions.

**Matthias** -: So how would you attach a particular domain into an address, you said to add a token to an address? I see there is a mention of transaction with that data in the spec?

**Benjamin** -: I'm Minting a token where the policy is not fixed because everybody should be able to Mint their own domain tokens. It's just the zip just fixes the name, the asset name has to be domain so that it can be found by implementations. So I'm Minting a token with the asset name domain and a special metadata pointing to my own domain and on the others, put it on the address, send it to the address that I want to link and on the other side I configure my DNS server to have a text record at a special sub domain that points back to the address and I put adjacent file at a well known location, also on that same domain that contains the address and possibly additional metadata.

**Matthias** -: So I haven't done my homework properly and this is the only CIP haven't read today so I'm just going to shout questions at you since we have you here. But how would you prevent someone else from Minting a new mapping after you created your first?

**Benjamin** -: So they can't just claim that the address belongs to a domain because the validation is done in the other direction. So they could only do that if the attacker also overtakes the domain, which is a problem outside the scope of a CIP because if they hack your website you have bigger problems.

**Matthias** -: Because there is a double validation in the sense that the domain itself has to reference the token.

**Benjamin** -: So the DNS server and the web server serving the Jason file have to point back to the address. It is only validated if there is a token with the domain on the Cardano side of things and if there is DNS entry and Jason file pointing to a Cardano address on the other side, on the ITF standard side of things. So what an attacker could do is Mint a token pointing to their own domain and put it on someone else's address. But that is not really the use case because if I don't want to send money to evil.com, I want to send money to binance.com and binance.com can only be verified if their web server points back to the address.

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**Benjamin** -: And even today everybody could produce an eight handle that roughly looks like the right one and put it in their Wallet, it's not a new problem.

**Matthias** -: And so at the moment in the proposal the DNS is assumed to have a way to resolve addresses and to be able to see what transaction issued originated at that address and perhaps to come back up to the printing transaction. Is that so? I see a reference to Coyos in the spec still?

**Benjamin** -: Yes, I'm using the same method as CIP-25 basically.

**Matthias** -: Which is what scares me.

**Benjamin** -: Looking for the last Mint transaction of the token and then taking the metadata from that last Mint transaction just like CIP-25 does for NFTs.

**Matthias** -: Which has a few well known problems nowadays, which were, I think we mentioned earlier, in particular that people could be using that standard without knowing, which makes it open to two kinds of attacks; hijacking and the like. And for something like resolving a particular event that happened on chain, I would maybe suggest to use a point on chain reference that is a slot number and a block hash to have the DNS look up not things based on an address, but based on the specific point on chain. You know say look at-

**Benjamin** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: Hash XXX slot number XXX and in that block there should be a transaction with that particular Minting, that particular policy ID. That would resolve a few issues and I think as a nice consequence also would make it fully centralized because that's something you can do with just ACA and a node. You don't need any API third party service to provide you that information, which means that a DNS provider could just be running a node and recover that information from the chain directly. Going through third party provider just increases also the surface of attack. If you reduce that at communication to just the nodes, I think it can makes also nice benefits.
The downside being that you need to know that point on chain, which means that you can probably only inference in the DNS server the point on chain after it has been already Minted. But I don't think it's a major problem for that use case. Do you see what I mean?

**Benjamin** -: Yes. So even in the proposal as it is now, you don't necessarily have a dependency on a specific API provider. You can get this information from the blockchain as it is. I just used Coyos in the example to, because they already provided.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, sure, I get that.

**Benjamin** -: Yeah, referencing a specific transaction on the chain would be an interesting alternative. Could you write it in a comment on the-

**Matthias** -: Of course.

**Benjamin** -: On the PR so that I can think a bit about it?

**Matthias** -: Of course, as I said I haven't hadn't got time really to go through the CIP offline yet, but I will and definitely add a few comments on that with my technical review hat. But yeah, from anything regarding the metadata, I would be quite worried about using CIP-25 kind of approaches as we've already stated, a few problem with that approach and we generally wants to get away from that I think for new proposal. Yeah.

**Benjamin** -: What exactly is the problem with the CIP-25 approach? Because the Minting transactions still have to be signed by the keys for the original token and that doesn't have them.

**Matthias** -: But CIP-25 the problem it has is, it's kind of implies that everyone is using it. If you are not using CIP-25 and for instance you want to have a Mint where the people Minting the tokens are not the one providing the metadata, you might be in trouble because now people can Mint something, use CIP-25 and provide fake metadata to your token. And since every single explorer at the moment will rely on that, they will show the metadata that you have provided, despite your project not relying on CIP-25. It does not prevent people from using it and therefore your project from sort of adopting CIP-25 unknowingly. You see what I mean? It assumes that everyone sort of has a knowledge, a higher knowledge of that CIP, but if you decide to opt out of that CIP it becomes quite complicated for you to do so. Generally speaking, when you create a solutions without changing the data, you should also think about people that will not want to adopt your solution because it might happen that a project might want to do otherwise and if it is possible for people to adapt to use your solution even though they were not willing to.

**Benjamin** -: But they can't if they do not have the key. If I Mint a token without CIP-25 metadata, I 
have the key for the Minting of that token.

**Matthias** -: Yes.

**Benjamin** -: And nobody else can exploit it and Mint with CIP-35 metadata for my token because I have the key for the token. I don't see the problem.

**Matthias** -: So imagine you have a project and you want people to Mint their token, so they have also access to the key, they have the key for Minting the token. But you want to define the metadata yourself. You don't want the people Minting to be the one defining the metadata because you are in internal project. So now, right, that means you don't want to use CIP-25 but you want to define the metadata through a different Mint but since there is CIP-25 and everyone is sort of embracing that standard now the one that you have given the rights to means they can also provide the metadata according to CIP-25 and makes it look like they have defined themselves the metadata. And that is the problem. They are spoofing, the one Minting are actually attacking the project that is not using CIP-25 because it's so easy for them to do so. You see the issue?

**Benjamin** -: It requires a very special customer relationship between the Minter and the one who is supposed to be the owner of the token. I don't think it applies in this case, but anyway your solution of pointing to a specific point on chain might be the better one anyway, so.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Okay. I will go through the whole proposal anyway, any comments on the conversation and I would like to welcome anyone to also do the same. That's an interesting proposal, definitely. Perhaps we can also reach out to a few specific key people at IOG to get an eye on that as well. Did you by any chance also get in touch with the other handle folks? That could be an interesting chat.

**Benjamin** -: With whom?

**Matthias** -: People at, behind the other handle project.

**Benjamin** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: Since this is an alternative to add a handle, there might be also some good pushback from them in a way which might steer the conversation into interesting places.

**Benjamin** -: Okay.

**Sebastien** -: Similarly my thought on this view is the missing kind of information about others [inaudible 00:59:00] because we are the first people to have access based on [inaudible 00:59:10] project, this would be nice to see [inaudible 00:59:15] about what they're doing if we're different from them in some way. And also I think these [inaudible 00:59:25] includes kind [inaudible 00:59:28] requirements or something like that in your CIP.

**Matthias** -: So yes, Sebastian you are quite breaking up on the microphone. I think I understood what you were saying which was that the CIP is missing a bit a comparison with other chains or project that have achieved the similar goal. So it could be nice to look at what exists, the state of the art across various blockchain projects and see therefore how it is compares. Obviously there are stuff that don't necessarily come out of the box on Cardano because we are using different approaches, but perhaps having an overview of the ecosystem, the broad ecosystems, outside of Cardano would be interesting. Did I got that correctly Sebastian? So Sebastian saying in the chat, yes, I think some of this other solution also had some requirements on DNS SCC or some kind of, which I didn't notice in the CIP for example.

**Benjamin** -: I consider DNS SEC and because it's implemented so little I deliberately left it out.

**Matthias** -: But that's a good thing to mention on the CIP then.

**Benjamin** -: Okay, cool.

**Matthias** -: In the rational section in particular to say "No, go through different solutions." You're also considering and the reason why you hold them out.

**Benjamin** -: Okay.

### Discussions
N/A
### Issues
N/A
### Close 

**Matthias** -: That internet for the next three weeks, good. We are in 2022 and I think it's time already so we haven't been through the latest item, the governance API for DApp connectors, but then we will just wrap up now to remain, well, roughly on time. I think we spend a bit too much time on the triage again and we should be a bit more careful with that. Not to spend more than two, three minutes for triage items and leave more room for reviews and discussions. Regarding the CIP domain. So we'll do a wrap up background this time. So we've been through the CIP domain proposal, interesting idea.
And as we discussed, maybe there is, we could review with the approach to points to directly a single point on chain. Overall we need more discussion on that proposal so we're going to try to get more visibility, especially from key people at input outputs would be good also to perhaps involve add a handle fault in the discussion just to see what I think about it and maybe steer the discussion in interesting places. We've been also through CIP-69 Script Signature Unification, which seems to go on a good direction to unify a bit how we define Plutus scripts, which will ease a bit more the developer experience on that front. There is, it's been already reviewed by the core team with an explicit modification to the proposal or suggestion to the proposal to use script arguments instead of augmenting the script purpose.
And so let's see how the discussion is steered from there. The CIP itself needs a bit of rewords, in particular in the motivation sections to make it clearer that, what the motivation is or what the problem it is trying to solve. We've been through CIP-38 again, which also is a modification of the core protocol suggesting to introduce new primitives to the Native script to be able to specify holes that involve spending from a [inaudible 01:04:06] script. There is a bit of a pushback from the core team on some aspect, so more discussions to happen also here. And perhaps clarification of the problems or the non problems that this CIP would introduce, versus the benefits that it adds.

We've also roughly discussed CIP-68, which been really following two different tracks at this stage. Mostly discussing, oh sorry, I'm mixing up with another one with CIP-67. So CIP-68, it's actually in good state, which it's just missing as far as I recall, a clear path to active and the clear handle that needs to be also worked a bit. Once we have the best script active, we should be able to move that one forward and Merge it as a proposed CIP while implementations are being worked on. And finally we've been through three items in triage, the Asset Name Label Registry CIP-67, which is the one currently in a bit of a two, two different following, two different tracks regarding the encoding of the asset name, either as a human label string or as a binary encoded data. Leaning more towards the binary encoded form, including a check to avoid usage of that CIP by mistake. CIP-53 Stand Out for Light Wallet backend connection for which we assumed that there was no clear motivations behind it or no clear demand. The CIP has been on hold for a while now, for a few months, so we will probably move it as rejected in the next call, but simply, yeah, notify the author before that.

Also because the author seems to have considered alternatives and is no longer interested in pursuing the CIP itself. And a modification to CIP-30, which is adding a gen ID to the list of information available from the CIP-30 interface. There is still a remaining point of discussions regarding the format of the Gen ID, should it be CBO encoded or a plain string as stated in CIP-34. Once that discussion is resolved, we can move it for review or probably last checks if it is just addition to an existing draft CIP. That's about it, I think. Thanks everyone for joining, participating in the conversation and see you next time.

---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
